Install Kyma on AKS (#2355)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/kyma/docs/04-05-aks-installation.md

---
title: Install Kyma on an AKS cluster
type: Installation
---

This Installation guide shows developers how to quickly deploy Kyma on an [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/kubernetes-service/) (AKS) cluster. Kyma installs on a cluster using a proprietary installer based on a Kubernetes operator.

## Prerequisites
- A domain for your AKS cluster
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) account
- [az](https://docs.microsoft.com/pl-pl/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- set the environment variables

### Environment variables

Set the following environment variables:
```
export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
export CLUSTER_NAME={YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
export REGION={YOUR_REGION} #westeurope
```

If you use a custom domain, set also these variables:
```
export DNS_DOMAIN={YOUR_DOMAIN} # example.com
export SUB_DOMAIN={YOUR_SUBDOMAIN} # cluster (in this case the full name of your cluster is cluster.example.com)
```

Create a resource group that will contain all your resources:
```
az group create --name $RS_GROUP --location $REGION
```

> >**NOTE:** If you don't own a domain which you can use or you don't want to assign a domain to a cluster, see the **Install Kyma on an AKS cluster with wildcard DNS** document which shows you how to create a cluster-based playground environment using a wildcard DNS provided by xip.io. 

Reviewer: Maybe we can link to this document as the linking option is already enabled on UI?

## DNS setup

Delegate the management of your domain to Azure DNS. Follow these steps:

1. Create a DNS-managed zone in your Azure subscription. Run:

    ```
    az network dns zone create -g ${RS_GROUP} -n ${DNS_DOMAIN}
    ```

>     Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI. Navigate go to **All services** in the **Networking** section, click **DNS zones** and select **Add**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI.  In the **Networking** section, go to **All services**, click **DNS zones**, and select **Add**.
```

>     Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI.  In the **Networking** section, go to **All services**, click **DNS zones**, and select **Add**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI. In the **Networking** section, go to **All services**, click **DNS zones**, and select **Add**.
```

2. Delegate your domain to Azure name servers.

    - Get the list of the name servers from the zone details. This is a sample list:
      ```
      ns1-05.azure-dns.com.
      ns2-05.azure-dns.net.
      ns3-05.azure-dns.org.
      ns4-05.azure-dns.info.
      ```

    - Set up your domain to use these name servers.

3. Check if everything is set up correctly and your domain is managed by Azure name servers. Run:
    ```
    host -t ns ${DNS_DOMAIN}
    ```
    A successful response returns the list of the name servers you fetched from Azure.

## Get the TLS certificate

> >**NOTE:** Azure DNS is not yet supported by Certbot, so we have to perform a manual veryfication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** Azure DNS is not yet supported by Certbot so you must perform a manual verification.
```

1. Create a folder for certificates. Run:
    ```
    mkdir letsencrypt
    ```
4. Run the Certbot Docker image with the `letsencrypt` folder mounted. Certbot stores the TLS certificates in that folder. Export your email address:
    ```
    export YOUR_EMAIL={YOUR_EMAIL}
    ```

>     To obtain a certificate run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To obtain a certificate, run:
```

    ```
    docker run -it --name certbot --rm \
        -v "$(pwd)/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
        certbot/certbot \
        certonly \
        -m ${YOUR_EMAIL} --agree-tos --no-eff-email \
        --manual \
        --manual-public-ip-logging-ok \
        --preferred-challenges dns \
        --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
        -d "*.${SUB_DOMAIN}.${DNS_DOMAIN}"
    ```

>     You will see a message similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You will see the following message:
```

    
    ```
    Please deploy a DNS TXT record under the name
    _acme-challenge.rc2-test.kyma.online with the following value:

    # TXT_VALUE
    
    Before continuing, verify the record is deployed.
    ```

>     Copy the TXT_VALUE. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Copy the `TXT_VALUE`. 
```

> 4. Open a new console and set the environment variables from the [Environment variables](#Environment-variables) step. Export the `TXT_VALUE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open a new console and set the environment variables from the [Environment variables](#Environment-variables) section. Export the `TXT_VALUE`.
```

> 4. Open a new console, set environment variables (from the [Environment variables](#Environment-variables) step). Export the TXT_VALUE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open a new console and set the environment variables from the [Environment variables](#Environment-variables) step. Export the `TXT_VALUE`.
```

    
    ```
    export TXT_VALUE={YOUR_TXT_VALUE}
    ```
    To modify TXT record for your domain, run:
    ```
    az network dns record-set txt delete -n "_acme-challenge.${SUB_DOMAIN}" -g ${RS_GROUP} -z ${DNS_DOMAIN} --yes
    az network dns record-set txt create -n "_acme-challenge.${SUB_DOMAIN}" -g ${RS_GROUP} -z ${DNS_DOMAIN} --ttl 60 > /dev/null
    az network dns record-set txt add-record -n "_acme-challenge.${SUB_DOMAIN}" -g ${RS_GROUP} -z ${DNS_DOMAIN} --value ${TXT_VALUE}
    ``` 
5. Go back to the first console, wait 2 minutes and press enter. 

6. Export the certificate and key as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```
    export TLS_CERT=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/${SUB_DOMAIN}.${DNS_DOMAIN}/fullchain.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    export TLS_KEY=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/${SUB_DOMAIN}.${DNS_DOMAIN}/privkey.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    ```

## Prepare the AKS cluster

> 1. Create a AKS cluster. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an AKS cluster. Run:
```

    ```
    az aks create \
      --resource-group $RS_GROUP \
      --name $CLUSTER_NAME \
      --node-vm-size "Standard_DS2_v2" \
      --kubernetes-version 1.10.9 \
      --enable-addons "monitoring,http_application_routing" \
      --generate-ssh-keys
    ```

2. Install Tiller on your AKS cluster. Run:

    ```
    kubectl apply -f installation/resources/tiller.yaml
    ```
    

> 3. Apply a fix for an AKS issue with readiness probe:

Reviewer: Let's talk.

> 3. Apply fix for AKS issue with readiness probe 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Apply a fix for an AKS issue with readiness probe:
```

Reviewer: I'd be grateful if you could explain this to me.

2. Export the version you chose as an environment variable. Run:
    ```
    export LATEST={KYMA_RELEASE_VERSION}
    ```

3. Download the `kyma-config-cluster` file from the release you chose. Run:
   ```
   wget https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/download/${LATEST}/kyma-config-cluster.yaml
   ```

4. Update the file with the values from your environment variables. Run:
    ```
    cat kyma-config-cluster.yaml | sed -e "s/__PROXY_EXCLUDE_IP_RANGES__/10.0.0.1/g" | sed -e "s/__DOMAIN__/${SUB_DOMAIN}.${DNS_DOMAIN}/g" |sed -e "s/__TLS_CERT__/${TLS_CERT}/g" | sed -e "s/__TLS_KEY__/${TLS_KEY}/g"|sed -e "s/__.*__//g"  >my-kyma.yaml
    ```

5. The output of this operation is the `my_kyma.yaml` file. Use it to deploy Kyma on your AKS cluster.

### Using your own image

1. Checkout [kyma-project](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma) and enter the root folder.

2. Build an image that is based on the current Installer image and includes the current installation and resources charts. Run:

    ```
    docker build -t kyma-installer:latest -f tools/kyma-installer/kyma.Dockerfile . --build-arg INSTALLER_VERSION=63484523
    ```

3. Push the image to your Docker Hub:
    ```

>     docker tag kyma-installer:latest [YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN]/kyma-installer:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker tag kyma-installer:latest {YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN}/kyma-installer:latest
```

    ```
    ```

>     docker push [YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN]/kyma-installer:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker push {YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN}/kyma-installer:latest
```

    ```

4. Prepare the deployment file:

    ```
    cat installation/resources/installer.yaml <(echo -e "\n---") installation/resources/installer-config-cluster.yaml.tpl  <(echo -e "\n---") installation/resources/installer-cr-cluster.yaml.tpl | sed -e "s/__PROXY_EXCLUDE_IP_RANGES__/10.0.0.1/g" | sed -e "s/__DOMAIN__/$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN/g" |sed -e "s/__TLS_CERT__/$TLS_CERT/g" | sed -e "s/__TLS_KEY__/$TLS_KEY/g" | sed -e "s/__.*__//g" > my-kyma.yaml
    ```

> 5. The output of this operation is the `my_kyma.yaml` file. Modify it to fetch the proper image with the changes you made ({YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN}/kyma-installer:latest). Use the modified file to deploy Kyma on your AKS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The output of this operation is the `my_kyma.yaml` file. Modify it to fetch the proper image with the changes you made (`{YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN}/kyma-installer:latest`). Use the modified file to deploy Kyma on your AKS cluster.
```

> 5. The output of this operation is the `my_kyma.yaml` file. Modify it to fetch the proper image with the changes you made ([YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN]/kyma-installer:latest). Use the modified file to deploy Kyma on your AKS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The output of this operation is the `my_kyma.yaml` file. Modify it to fetch the proper image with the changes you made ({YOUR_DOCKER_LOGIN}/kyma-installer:latest). Use the modified file to deploy Kyma on your AKS cluster.
```

## Deploy Kyma

> 1. Configure kubectl to use your new cluster. Add yourself as the cluster admin, and deploy Kyma Installer with your configuration. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure kubectl to use your new cluster. Add yourself as the cluster admin and deploy Kyma Installer with your configuration. Run:
```

> 1. Configure kubectl to use your new cluster. Run:  add yourself as the cluster admin, and deploy Kyma Installer with your configuration.

Reviewer: Something is wrong with this sentence.
